# 🚀 TETIS V9.1: Computational scalability evaluation package

This repository contains all the files and scripts required to evaluate the computational performance and scalability of the distributed hydrological model **[TETIS v9.1](https://zenodo.org/records/17780029)**.

The primary goal is to obtain execution time results to feed into the predictive tool, '[TETIS Time Predictor](https://zenodo.org/record/17781133)', which estimates execution times based on input configurations and specific hardware.

## 📦 Repository Structure

| Directory | Content | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **`Modelos`** | Compressed archives (.7z) | Contains **30 compressed basin configurations** with all necessary TETIS input files, parameter maps, and executables ( `Toparc.exe`, `Hantec.exe`, `Tetis.exe`). |
| **`Monitor`** | Hardware tools | Contains the HWiNFO64 utility and configuration files (`equipo.csv`, `monitoreo.csv`) used to collect hardware data (CPU, RAM, Clock Speed). |
| **`Codes`** | Python Scripts | Contains python scripts (`Rend_Topolco_Hantec.py`, `Rend_Tetis.py`) for measuring execution times. |
| **`Res`** | Output Folder | Destination folder for storing the execution time results generated by the Python scripts. |

-----

## 🛠️ Evaluation Package Usage

To meseure TETIS execution times using the codes on this git, follow these steps:

### Step 1: Prepare the Data and Hardware Information

This step gathers the necessary hardware data (`equipo.csv` and `monitoreo.csv`).

1.  **Download and Uncompress:** Download and decompress all `.7z` archives located in the **`Modelos`** directory.
2.  **Collect Static Hardware Data (`equipo.csv`):**
      * Navigate to the **`Monitor`** folder.
      * Execute **`HWiNFO64.exe`** in configuration **full mode**.
      * Clic on `Report` button.
      * Select `.csv` format.
      * Configurate the directory to `Monitor folder`.
      * Modify the file name for `equipo.csv`.
      * Clic on `Next` and select all computer information, and clic on `End`. 
      * Ensure the output file **`equipo.csv`** is generated. This file will contain static hardware specifications (RAM, core count, processor model, etc.).
3.  **Collect Dynamic Hardware Data (`monitoreo.csv`):**
      * Execute **`HWiNFO64.exe`** in mode **sensors-only **.
      * Clic on "Start records".
      * Configurate the directory to `Monitor folder`.
      * Name the file name for `monitor.csv`.
      * Ensure the output file **`monitoreo.csv`** is generated. This file will store the average processor clock speeds measured during monitoring.
      * Do not close **`HWiNFO64.exe`**

### Step 2: Run the time meseurement scripts

Navigate to the **`Codes`** directory and execute the relevant Python script based on the process you wish to analyze.

1.  **Choose the `Rend_Topolco_Hantec.py`**
      * To meseure the time excecution of **`Topolco.sds`** and **`Hantec.sds`** generation.<br>
        `Open the file 'Rend_Topolco_Hantec.py' in an IDE and follow the instructions.`
2.  **Choose the `Rend_Tetis.py`**
      * To meseure the time excecution of **`Hydrological Simulation Execution`**.<br>
        `Open the file 'Rend_Tetis.py' in an IDE and follow the instructions.`
-----

## 🔗 Citation

Please cite the associated publication when using this repository or the derived models:

\[Cortés-Torres, N., Salazar Galán, S., & Francés García, F. (2025). Scalability and Computational Performance of the TETIS Eco-Hydrological Model Using Machine Learning-Based Prediction. (Submitted for publication).]

**DOI:** \[Submitted for publication]
